Preccint

Complaint 1:
I'm at palawan beach now and the showers there has no water pressure at all.

Not sure if it?s not turned on, but please check on it. Thanks.

Response Content 1:
Greetings from Sentosa!

Thank you for your feedback.

We would like to take this opportunity to share that the facilities used in the washrooms along our beaches are approved by the authorities and the source of water supply is also in accordance with the guidelines which the mainland. As the water flow is evenly distributed to all the outlets, the volume of water that emit from our showers and taps will be lower if they are used at the same time.

With the above, regular inspections of the facilities are conducted by our staff and if any equipment are spotted to be in non-working conditions, it will be reported and our maintenance will carry out the necessary works.

Once again, we appreciate you for taking the time to bring this to our attention. Should you wish to provide feedback with regards to the facilities or amenities on the island, the relevant teams will be informed accordingly.

Thank you for your continuous support of Sentosa.

Preccint
Complaint 2:
Sentosa Ranger vehicle <XX XXXX> in the photo below endangered my life on Tuesday 12th July at about 1239pm. Please investigate and ban the driver from using all SENTOSA vehicles in addition to all other penalties.

Reponse Content 2:
Thank you for taking the time to write in to us.

Our guests' safety is of utmost importance to us and we are sorry to learn of your experience during your recent visit to Sentosa.

Following your email to our CE, <PERSON>, we have raised your feedback to the relevant department of which a thorough investigation was taken to understand the situation.

Based on our review, we observed that you were walking on the left side of the footpath towards the direction of Tanjong beach and was about to <SG_ADDRESS_STREET> you spotted Sentosa Ranger vehicle <XX XXXX X> arriving from the opposite direction. Upon sight of the vehicle, you stopped and walked back towards the footpath, shortly after, the Ranger driving the vehicle had spotted you and taken a wider berth to the right as it drove past you.

With that being said, his manager has since addressed this with him and we will remind our <XXXX> and adhering <XXX> protocols in ensuring the well-being of our guests.

Thank you for giving us this opportunity to investigate and clarify your feedback, and we look forward to your continual support.

Should you need to contact me, for any further matters, I can be reached at this email directly.

Preccint
Complaint 3:
I've been to Sentosa a few times since Jul 2022.

Each visit when I use the female toilet at Siloso cable car station, I find only 1 of the 2 soap dispensers filled. The filled one is sited beside the sink for children. The other dispenser that's mounted for use at the sinks for adults has always been empty! Regardless of the time of day when I visited in Jul, Aug & Oct 2022: morning, afternoon or evening! Coincidence? Or is the dispenser at the sinks for adults not in working order? Or are the cleaners told or have they decided to just fill 1 dispenser only? Hmm...

Please could the cleaning supervisor look into this matter. Thanks.

Sink for children: Apparently it's been I need of repair & out-of-service since Jul 2022! I wonder because there's a sign at the sink that it should not be used to wash feet.

Perhaps SDC should consider providing taps for washing sandy feet on the ground level of the station. The foot wash area will reduce the cleaners' & maintenance technicians' woes.

Reponse Content 3:
We have rectified the faulty soap dispensers and we would like to apologize for the inconvenience caused.

With regard to the sink for the children, we have temporarily turned it off due to guests washing their feet on the sink. This led to a choke and wet floor in the washroom.

Rest assured; our facilities department are reaching out to SDC on this as well to see if they can explore a foot washing area before our stations.

We hope this clarifies the guest's concern.

Preccint
Complaint 4:
Was visiting Sentosa Trick Eye Museum on X/X/XXX. I asked this Sentosa Express (MRT) staff at Beach Station where to board the shuttle to Trick Eye Museum, she pointed to the beach direction and told me to board the shuttle there.

1. Firstly I almost missed the shuttle stop, it is the beach shuttle, as the stop is not so obvious. However when I ask for direction I was told there is a stop there. That was after walking for 10 minutes!

2. Upon reaching the destination I XXX far and need to climb a flight of stairs,which is extremely difficult for me to climb as my knees are giving me problems, to get to Trick Eye Museum.

After visiting the museum I took the shuttle bus as it was so near to the Trick Eye Museum. I told the C bus driver I want to go to Vivo City. When the bus arrived at Beach station he told me to take the Sentosa Express to Vivo City. This stop was just below the Beach station! I am so furious why your staff cannot just simply tell me to take the bus shuttle just downstairs instead of XXX far and still make me to climb those flight of stairs.

You should change to a better staff if she is unhelpful and make life difficult for tourist and people visiting Sentosa. Please see her photo in attachment. Terrible work performance.

Email Response 4:



Process
Complaint 5:
I booked a sentosa cruise trip on Jan 6 2022 via your website with order no XXXXX . I paid <CURRENCY> by my credit card.

However, on XXX XX I was informed(by XXX via XXX) the trip was cancelled due to not enough group sign up and the refund will be issued within 4-6 weeks to my credit card(ending with XXXX).

Until now 7 weeks have passed, I still have not received the refund and when checking with wonderlust via whatsapp, they direct me to contact via email and are not able to give a clear update from their side. Therefore I am writing to you to ask for help to issue the refund to my credit card ASAP. The process is unreasonably long and already exceeded the communicated refund timing and I am extremely frustrated about it.

In the future, I also suggest you/your organization do the following improvement to avoid frustrations:

1. Please inform guests clearly that the trip cannot be confirmed until XXX before booking payment.

For my case, I was not informed the trip can only be confirmed 1 day before the tour BEFORE my payment. Only AFTER the payment when I received the purchase confirmation?there was a tiny line in terms & conditions written which can barely be seen or easily overlooked.

2. Please do not charge or only authorize to hold the amount in credit card) until the booking is confirmed.

For my case, I have paid first and waited for a refund since XX XX. Now it is XXX XX and I am not receiving anything back. Nor I contacted Sentosa via online request form on Mar 4 but not receiving a single respond
 
Response Content 5:
Subject: RE: (Urgent) Request to expedite refund of order no 0VH49QC2

Dear <PERSON>,

Thank you for your patience and email.

We've checked with our Finance colleagues, the refund for XXXXXX has been completed on XX XXX XXXX.

Kindly check with your bank on the transaction. We sincerely apologize for the delay and inconvenience caused.

Have a pleasant day ahead!

Warm Regards,

<PERSON>

Assistant Executive, Guest Insights & Experience

Marketing & Guest Experience Division | Sentosa Development Corporation


Preccint
Complaint 6:
There was some redness on the body parts we hit but no visible bruises.

I had some chest pain after i got up as I believe the seat in front of me broke my fall and i was pushed against it when i landed on the floor in a squat position. Since then the chest discomfort is on and off.

Later that night I started to experience muscle pain from my right leg/thigh/buttocks area. This is from the initial impact on landing after falling off my seat. I also hit my lower back against the Wall. There is soreness in the back, shoulder and neck.

I am currently on the waitlist to see my osteopath.

My sister was seated behind Me.

Impact was on her left shoulder and lower back when she hit the seat in front. There was Pain in lower back, shoulders and neck from later in the day. 

She had 2 sessions with an osteopath to ease the soreness and pain.

There could be some longer term aches and pain from muscle/soft tissue injury Which the bus company should be liable for ( eg. Was the bus going over the speed limit  etc).

Response Content 6:
Thank you for reaching out to Sentosa.

We have received your feedback on the incident that you encountered on 22 March 2022 while travelling on our Shuttle Bus C.

Our sincere apologies for the incident that occurred. I have shared the feedback with the appropriate department to assist in the investigation. The CCTV will be reviewed and further steps will be taken.

While the investigation is underway, I would like to check on how you and your sister are doing? I understand that you mentioned both of you experienced back pain after the impact, have you both sought medical treatment?

Do let us know how we could best assist you and help you on this.

We look forward to your reply. Take care and speedy recovery to you and your sister.

Thank you and have a pleasant day ahead!

